README.md, before:

![Zoned Banner](zoned-assets/github/github-banner.png)

<div align="center">

Custom window zones for GNOME

[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GNOME Shell](https://img.shields.io/badge/GNOME_Shell-46%2B-4A86CF.svg)](https://extensions.gnome.org/)

</div>

---

## What is Zoned?

GNOME gives you one layout: 50/50 left/right. On an ultrawide, that's two unusably wide windows. Zoned lets you define any layout you want.

**The in-between you've been missing**: Zoned sits between full tiling window managers and free-floating chaos. Define custom zones, snap windows with keyboard shortcuts, or ignore it entirely-Zoned won't fight you.

### Features

- **Custom zone profiles** - Define layouts that match how you actually work
- **Visual zone editor** - Create and edit zones without touching config files
- **Keyboard-driven snapping** - Move windows between zones with shortcuts
- **Multi-monitor support** - Different layouts for different displays
- **Workspace-aware** - Integrates with GNOME's workspace system
- **X11 + Wayland** - Works on both display protocols
- **State persistence** - Remembers your layout and zones across sessions
- **Auto-fix conflicts** - Detects and resolves keyboard shortcut conflicts with GNOME

### Who it's for

Everyone. Zoned works on any monitor and resolution.

That said—if you've got an ultrawide and wondered why Linux makes you choose between 50/50 splits or a full tiling WM, this is for you.

---

## Quick Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hamiltonia/zoned.git
cd zoned
make dev
```

Then reload GNOME Shell:
- **Wayland:** Log out → Log back in
- **X11:** `Alt+F2` → type `r` → Enter

---

## Basic Workflow

1. **Choose a layout:** Press `Super+grave` to open the Layout Switcher
2. **Select a layout** (e.g., "Split", "Triple", "Wide")
3. **Snap windows:** Focus any window and press `Super+Right` to snap it to the next zone
4. **Repeat:** Focus another window, press `Super+Right` again to fill the layout

Your layout choice persists—just snap windows as you open them.

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Super+Left` | Snap window to previous zone |
| `Super+Right` | Snap window to next zone |
| `Super+grave` | Open Layout Switcher (backtick key) |
| `Super+Up` | Maximize/restore window |
| `Super+Down` | Minimize window |

> **Note:** `Super` is the Windows key (⊞)

---

## Built-in Layout Templates

Five templates for common workflows:

| Layout | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Split | Two equal halves (50/50) |
| Triple | Three equal columns (33/33/33) |
| Wide | Center-focused (25/50/25) |
| Quarters | 2×2 grid |
| Triple Stack | Three columns with stacked right panel |

### Custom Layouts

Create your own using the **Layout Switcher** and **Zone Editor**:

1. Press `Super+grave` to open the Layout Switcher
2. Click "New Layout" to create a custom layout
3. Use the visual zone editor to define your zones

---

## Troubleshooting

**Extension not loading?**
```bash
gnome-extensions list --enabled | grep zoned  # Check if enabled
make logs                                      # View errors
gsettings reset-recursively org.gnome.shell.extensions.zoned  # Reset
```

**Keyboard conflicts?** Look for the orange indicator in your panel → Click → "Auto-Fix Conflicts"

---

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) | Developer quick reference, Makefile commands |
| [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) | Contribution guidelines, code style, PR process |
| [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) | Component overview, system design |
| [docs/keybindings.md](docs/keybindings.md) | Complete keyboard shortcut reference |
| [docs/technical-specs.md](docs/technical-specs.md) | Data structures, edge layouts |
| [docs/coding-patterns.md](docs/coding-patterns.md) | Code style guide |
| [docs/vm-setup-guide.md](docs/vm-setup-guide.md) | VM development environment setup |
| [docs/testing-strategy.md](docs/testing-strategy.md) | Testing strategy and VM test infrastructure |
| [ROADMAP.md](ROADMAP.md) | Planned features and project direction |
| [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) | Version history and release notes |

---

## About This Project

A hobby project born from a personal need: better window management on a 5120×1440 super-ultrawide. Built entirely using agentic AI tools as a learning exercise in AI-assisted development workflows.

Not commercial. GPL-3.0 licensed. Contributions welcome.

---

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

**Ways to help:**
- Testing on different GNOME versions
- Bug reports and fixes
- Documentation improvements
- New layout designs

---

## Acknowledgments

- **Windows PowerToys FancyZones** - Original inspiration for zone-based window management
- **GNOME Shell** - Excellent extensibility platform

**Coming soon:** Zoned for macOS

---

<div align="center">

🐛 [Report bugs](https://github.com/hamiltonia/zoned/issues) · 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/hamiltonia/zoned/discussions)

*Inspired by Microsoft PowerToys FancyZones. Not affiliated with Microsoft, GNOME, or Hammerspoon.*

</div>

Commit message:

Refactor VM development infrastructure and add profile management
Major improvements to VM development workflow:

- Add universal `scripts/vm` wrapper for profile-based VM management
- Introduce VM profile system (dev, headless, custom configs)
- Reorganize scripts into user/ and util/ directories for clarity
- Add comprehensive VM documentation (vm-profiles.md, vm-setup-improvements.md)
- Enhance VM detection with Debian support
- Add direnv integration (.envrc) for development environment
- Update Makefile with improved VM testing targets
- Update documentation (README.md, scripts/README.md)

New features:
- Profile management via `scripts/user/vm-profile`
- Automatic SPICE restarts on virtiofs changes
- Better error messages and diagnostics
- Cross-platform support (Fedora, Debian)

Modified by Cline

README.md, after:

![Zoned Banner](zoned-assets/github/github-banner.png)

<div align="center">

Custom window zones for GNOME

[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GNOME Shell](https://img.shields.io/badge/GNOME_Shell-46%2B-4A86CF.svg)](https://extensions.gnome.org/)

</div>

---

## What is Zoned?

GNOME gives you one layout: 50/50 left/right. On an ultrawide, that's two unusably wide windows. Zoned lets you define any layout you want.

**The in-between you've been missing**: Zoned sits between full tiling window managers and free-floating chaos. Define custom zones, snap windows with keyboard shortcuts, or ignore it entirely-Zoned won't fight you.

### Features

- **Custom zone profiles** - Define layouts that match how you actually work
- **Visual zone editor** - Create and edit zones without touching config files
- **Keyboard-driven snapping** - Move windows between zones with shortcuts
- **Multi-monitor support** - Different layouts for different displays
- **Workspace-aware** - Integrates with GNOME's workspace system
- **X11 + Wayland** - Works on both display protocols
- **State persistence** - Remembers your layout and zones across sessions
- **Auto-fix conflicts** - Detects and resolves keyboard shortcut conflicts with GNOME

### Who it's for

Everyone. Zoned works on any monitor and resolution.

That said—if you've got an ultrawide and wondered why Linux makes you choose between 50/50 splits or a full tiling WM, this is for you.

---

## Quick Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hamiltonia/zoned.git
cd zoned
make dev
```

Then reload GNOME Shell:
- **Wayland:** Log out → Log back in
- **X11:** `Alt+F2` → type `r` → Enter

---

## Basic Workflow

1. **Choose a layout:** Press `Super+grave` to open the Layout Switcher
2. **Select a layout** (e.g., "Split", "Triple", "Wide")
3. **Snap windows:** Focus any window and press `Super+Right` to snap it to the next zone
4. **Repeat:** Focus another window, press `Super+Right` again to fill the layout

Your layout choice persists—just snap windows as you open them.

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Super+Left` | Snap window to previous zone |
| `Super+Right` | Snap window to next zone |
| `Super+grave` | Open Layout Switcher (backtick key) |
| `Super+Up` | Maximize/restore window |
| `Super+Down` | Minimize window |

> **Note:** `Super` is the Windows key (⊞)

---

## Built-in Layout Templates

Five templates for common workflows:

| Layout | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Split | Two equal halves (50/50) |
| Triple | Three equal columns (33/33/33) |
| Wide | Center-focused (25/50/25) |
| Quarters | 2×2 grid |
| Triple Stack | Three columns with stacked right panel |

### Custom Layouts

Create your own using the **Layout Switcher** and **Zone Editor**:

1. Press `Super+grave` to open the Layout Switcher
2. Click "New Layout" to create a custom layout
3. Use the visual zone editor to define your zones

---

## Troubleshooting

**Extension not loading?**
```bash
gnome-extensions list --enabled | grep zoned  # Check if enabled
make logs                                      # View errors
gsettings reset-recursively org.gnome.shell.extensions.zoned  # Reset
```

**Keyboard conflicts?** Look for the orange indicator in your panel → Click → "Auto-Fix Conflicts"

---

## For Developers

**VM Development:** Use the `vm` script for all VM operations:
```bash
./scripts/vm setup         # Configure VM
./scripts/vm logs          # Watch VM logs  
./scripts/vm test func     # Run tests
make vm-dev                # Deploy to VM
```

See [scripts/README.md](scripts/README.md) for complete VM command reference.

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) | Developer quick reference, Makefile commands |
| [scripts/README.md](scripts/README.md) | VM development scripts and commands |
| [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) | Contribution guidelines, code style, PR process |
| [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) | Component overview, system design |
| [docs/keybindings.md](docs/keybindings.md) | Complete keyboard shortcut reference |
| [docs/technical-specs.md](docs/technical-specs.md) | Data structures, edge layouts |
| [docs/coding-patterns.md](docs/coding-patterns.md) | Code style guide |
| [docs/vm-setup-guide.md](docs/vm-setup-guide.md) | VM development environment setup |
| [docs/testing-strategy.md](docs/testing-strategy.md) | Testing strategy and VM test infrastructure |
| [ROADMAP.md](ROADMAP.md) | Planned features and project direction |
| [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) | Version history and release notes |

---

## About This Project

A hobby project born from a personal need: better window management on a 5120×1440 super-ultrawide. Built entirely using agentic AI tools as a learning exercise in AI-assisted development workflows.

Not commercial. GPL-3.0 licensed. Contributions welcome.

---

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

**Ways to help:**
- Testing on different GNOME versions
- Bug reports and fixes
- Documentation improvements
- New layout designs

---

## Acknowledgments

- **Windows PowerToys FancyZones** - Original inspiration for zone-based window management
- **GNOME Shell** - Excellent extensibility platform

**Coming soon:** Zoned for macOS

---

<div align="center">

🐛 [Report bugs](https://github.com/hamiltonia/zoned/issues) · 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/hamiltonia/zoned/discussions)

*Inspired by Microsoft PowerToys FancyZones. Not affiliated with Microsoft or GNOME.*

</div>
