ROADMAP.md, before:

# Zoned Development Roadmap

**Current Status:** Pre-release (v1.0 development)  
**Branch:** `initial_dev`

## v1.0 Release

### Remaining Work
- No major feature work remaining

**Code Quality:**
- [ ] Final testing pass on X11 and Wayland
- [x] Stability testing infrastructure (D-Bus interface, resource tracking)
- [ ] Run stability tests and verify no leaks
- [ ] Integrate resource tracking into remaining components

### Known Issues

None critical at this time.

---

## Architecture Overview

### Core Components

| Component | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| **LayoutManager** | Layout state, zone cycling, persistence |
| **WindowManager** | Window positioning, multi-monitor |
| **KeybindingManager** | Keyboard shortcut registration |
| **SpatialStateManager** | Per-workspace/monitor layouts |
| **TemplateManager** | Built-in layout templates |

### UI Components

| Component | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| **LayoutSwitcher** | Grid picker for layout selection |
| **ZoneEditor** | Full-screen edge-based layout editor |
| **PanelIndicator** | Top bar icon and menu |
| **ZoneOverlay** | Visual zone preview during drag |
| **NotificationManager** | OSD-style notifications |

### Key Features

- **Zone cycling:** Super+Left/Right to move windows between zones
- **Layout Switcher:** Super+` for visual layout selection
- **Custom layouts:** Create and edit via Zone Editor
- **Per-space layouts:** Different layouts per workspace×monitor
- **Quick shortcuts:** Super+Ctrl+Alt+1-9 for instant layout switching
- **Conflict detection:** Auto-detect and fix GNOME keybinding conflicts

---

## Post-v1.0 Roadmap

### v1.1: UX Improvements
- Add screenshots to README (Layout Switcher, Zone Editor)
- Monitor hot-plug handling

### v1.2: Polish
- Localization support
- Accessibility (keyboard nav)

### v1.3: Advanced Features
- Window rules (per-app layout preferences)
- Import/export layouts
- Document JSON format for custom layouts (power users)
- Grid Editor (allow arbitrary layouts)

---

## Development

```bash
# Quick setup
make dev

# Watch logs
make logs

# VM development (recommended for fast iteration)
make vm-init
make vm-setup
make vm-logs
```

See [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) for details.

## Documentation

- [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) - Component design
- [docs/technical-specs.md](docs/technical-specs.md) - Edge layouts, per-space system
- [docs/coding-patterns.md](docs/coding-patterns.md) - Code style guide
- [docs/keybindings.md](docs/keybindings.md) - Keyboard shortcuts
- [docs/vm-setup-guide.md](docs/vm-setup-guide.md) - VM setup for development

Commit message:

Fix modal timing issues in Fedora 43 causing dialog non-interactivity
In Fedora 43, modal grab timing changes caused several critical issues with
LayoutSwitcher and LayoutSettingsDialog, making buttons unresponsive and
causing infinite recursion loops. This commit implements comprehensive fixes
for proper modal handoff between dialogs.

**Issues Fixed:**
1. LayoutSwitcher recursion crash when opening/closing LayoutSettingsDialog
2. LayoutSettingsDialog buttons completely non-responsive (click events blocked)
3. Delete confirmation dialog buttons non-responsive
4. Escape key not working after closing LayoutSettingsDialog

**Root Causes:**
- Modal acquisition timing conflicts between dialogs in Fedora 43
- Event handlers unconditionally blocking event propagation to child widgets
- Key event handlers not re-establishing after modal handoff

**Technical Changes:**

extension/ui/layoutSwitcher.js:
- Added _reacquiringModal guard flag to prevent recursion in _handleBackgroundClick
- Implemented GLib.idle_add() deferral in _reacquireModalAfterSettings()
- Reconnect key events after modal re-acquisition to restore Escape handler
- Guard flag cleared only AFTER all operations complete

extension/ui/layoutSettingsDialog.js:
- Added Shell module import for proper ActionMode.NORMAL constant
- Deferred modal acquisition with GLib.idle_add() to avoid timing conflict
- Removed dialogCard button-press-event handler that blocked all child clicks
- Fixed delete confirmation wrapper to return EVENT_PROPAGATE for inside clicks
- Added comprehensive error checking and logging for modal acquisition

**Testing:**
- Verified in Fedora 43 VM
- All buttons now functional: Duplicate, Delete, Edit zones, Cancel, Save
- Delete confirmation Cancel/Delete buttons work
- Escape key works in all dialog states
- No recursion crashes

Modified by Cline

ROADMAP.md, after:

# Zoned Development Roadmap

**Current Status:** Pre-release (v1.0 development)  
**Branch:** `initial_dev`

## v1.0 Release

### Remaining Work
- no major feature work planned for MVP

**Code Quality:**
- [ ] Final testing pass on X11 and Wayland
- [x] Stability testing infrastructure (D-Bus interface, resource tracking)
- [ ] Memory leak testing of settings (layout switcher and extension testing completed with fixes)

### Known Issues

None critical at this time.

---

## Architecture Overview

### Core Components

| Component | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| **LayoutManager** | Layout state, zone cycling, persistence |
| **WindowManager** | Window positioning, multi-monitor |
| **KeybindingManager** | Keyboard shortcut registration |
| **SpatialStateManager** | Per-workspace/monitor layouts |
| **TemplateManager** | Built-in layout templates |

### UI Components

| Component | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| **LayoutSwitcher** | Grid picker for layout selection |
| **ZoneEditor** | Full-screen edge-based layout editor |
| **PanelIndicator** | Top bar icon and menu |
| **ZoneOverlay** | Visual zone preview during drag |
| **NotificationManager** | OSD-style notifications |

### Key Features

- **Zone cycling:** Super+Left/Right to move windows between zones
- **Layout Switcher:** Super+` for visual layout selection
- **Custom layouts:** Create and edit via Zone Editor
- **Per-space layouts:** Different layouts per workspace×monitor
- **Quick shortcuts:** Super+Ctrl+Alt+1-9 for instant layout switching
- **Conflict detection:** Auto-detect and fix GNOME keybinding conflicts

---

## Post-v1.0 Roadmap

### v1.1: UX Improvements
- Add screenshots to README (Layout Switcher, Zone Editor)
- Monitor hot-plug handling

### v1.2: Polish
- Localization support
- Accessibility (keyboard nav)

### v1.3: Advanced Features
- Window rules (per-app layout preferences)
- Import/export layouts
- Document JSON format for custom layouts (power users)
- Grid Editor (allow arbitrary layouts)

---

## Development

```bash
# Quick setup
make dev

# Watch logs
make logs

# VM development (recommended for fast iteration)
make vm-init
make vm-setup
make vm-logs
```

See [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) for details.

## Documentation

- [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) - Component design
- [docs/technical-specs.md](docs/technical-specs.md) - Edge layouts, per-space system
- [docs/coding-patterns.md](docs/coding-patterns.md) - Code style guide
- [docs/keybindings.md](docs/keybindings.md) - Keyboard shortcuts
- [docs/vm-setup-guide.md](docs/vm-setup-guide.md) - VM setup for development
